<|ref|>title<|/ref|><|det|>[[33, 103, 475, 135]]<|/det|>
# Environmental Research Group  

<|ref|>image<|/ref|><|det|>[[544, 0, 978, 250]]<|/det|>  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[33, 290, 245, 468]]<|/det|>
In our advanced research laboratories, WRI conducts sophisticated and comprehensive environmental analyses and research. This information is the foundation that helps us make decisions about living responsibly within our environment.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[34, 510, 243, 614]]<|/det|>
"The data we are able to extract from thorough testing procedures provides vital input in decisions that affect our choices and our quality of life."  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[340, 270, 677, 285]]<|/det|>
An Interview with Dr. Rick Rediske, Program Manager  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[340, 290, 610, 338]]<|/det|>
Why is it important for WRI to continue to investigate the presence of chemical contaminates in the environment?  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[340, 340, 616, 488]]<|/det|>
The testing we do serves two purposes. First, it helps define the nature and the extent of a problem or a potential problem. The best means of protecting our water quality is by preventing problems before they occur. That's why we need to continually assess the condition of our environment so we can detect changes that might signal a potential problem.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[340, 490, 614, 586]]<|/det|>
Second, it provides important information that will help decision- makers identify what should happen next. Without adequate data, those who are working towards change will have a difficult time developing viable solutions.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[340, 606, 603, 638]]<|/det|>
Has your lab developed any new testing systems or procedures?  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[340, 640, 595, 688]]<|/det|>
This past year we established a toxicology laboratory designed to evaluate the toxicity of sediments to aquatic  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[635, 290, 911, 338]]<|/det|>
organisms. The laboratory is dedicated exclusively to culturing specimens and testing how toxins affect these organisms.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[635, 358, 911, 459]]<|/det|>
You completed an extensive investigation of sediment contamination in the Tannery Bay of White Lake in Muskegon County. Can you give us a summary of the results and tell us how this investigation will help clean- up efforts?  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[635, 460, 911, 638]]<|/det|>
The results of the project show that there are adverse ecological effects associated with the sediment contamination. In addition, mixing and resuspension of the sediments continues to move the contaminates from Tannery Bay into other parts of White Lake. The identification of these issues has resulted in the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality raising the priority of sediment remediation of Tannery Bay.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[635, 657, 911, 755]]<|/det|>
You recently developed an Agricultural Water Quality Index (AWQI) to help evaluate the relationship between farming operations and water quality. Can you explain the purpose of this index and why it's important?  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[635, 757, 911, 911]]<|/det|>
The index was designed specifically for the agricultural community to assist in evaluating potential water quality impacts from farming operations. It builds on established indices that examine instream conditions and incorporates a series of measurements that evaluate land use impacts on water quality. It also assists producers in evaluating the suc