<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 73, 345, 300]]<|/det|>
The regulation provides that all other use, absent statutory or other express authority, requires a sales contract or permit. The BLM refers interested parties to the explanation of this regulatory language in the preamble to the final rule published in the Federal Register in 2001, available at https:// www.federalregister.gov/d/01- 29001, which states that minimal use "would not include large- scale use of mineral materials, even within the boundaries of the surface estate" (66 FR 58894). Further explanation is contained in the BLM Instruction Memorandum No. 2014- 085 (April 23, 2014), available on the BLM's website at https:// www.blm.gov/policy/im- 2014- 085.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 301, 330, 352]]<|/det|>
The following numbered terms and conditions will appear on the conveyance documents for the sale parcels:  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 353, 345, 468]]<|/det|>
(1) All mineral deposits in the lands so patented, and to it, or persons authorized by it, the right to prospect for, mine, and remove such deposits from the same under applicable law and regulations to be established by the Secretary are reserved to the United States, together with all necessary access and exit rights.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 470, 344, 520]]<|/det|>
(2) A right-of-way is reserved for ditches and canals constructed by authority of the United States under the Act of August 30, 1890 (43 U.S.C. 945).  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 521, 320, 547]]<|/det|>
(3) The parcels are subject to valid existing rights.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 549, 330, 625]]<|/det|>
(4) The parcels are subject to reservations for roads, public utilities, and flood control purposes, both existing and proposed, in accordance with the local governing entities' transportation plans.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 626, 345, 690]]<|/det|>
(5) An appropriate indemnification clause protecting the United States from claims arising out of the patentee's use, occupancy, or occupations on the patented lands.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 691, 345, 832]]<|/det|>
To the extent required by law, the parcels are subject to the requirements of Section 120(h) of the CERCLA, as amended. Accordingly, notice is hereby given that the lands have been examined and no evidence was found to indicate that any hazardous substances have been stored for one year or more, nor that any hazardous substances have been disposed of or released on the subject properties.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 833, 345, 934]]<|/det|>
No warranty of any kind, express or implied, is given by the United States as to the title, whether or to what extent the land may be developed, its physical condition, future uses, or any other circumstance or condition. The conveyance of the parcels will not be on a contingency basis.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[370, 72, 600, 145]]<|/det|>
Authority: 43 CFR 2711.3- 2. Robbie McAboy, District Manager, Ely District Office. [FR Doc. 2024- 15286 Filed 7- 11- 24; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4331- 21- P  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[361, 167, 596, 181]]<|/det|>
## DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[361, 191, 528, 205]]<|/det|>
## Bureau of Indian Affairs  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[361, 216, 567, 229]]<|/det|>
## Bureau of Land Management  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[361, 233, 565, 246]]<|/det|>
[BLM NM FRN MO4500178179]  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 255, 615, 320]]<|/det|>
Termination of Preparation of the Environmental Impact Statement for the Farmington Macros- Gallup Resource Management Plan Amendment, New Mexico  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 327, 625, 365]]<|/det|>
AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management; Bureau of Indian Affairs, Interior. ACTION: Notice of termination.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 373, 630, 465]]<|/det|>
SUMMARY: The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) are terminating the preparation of an environmental impact statement (EIS) for the Farmington Macros- Gallup Resource Management Plan (RMP) Amendment.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 465, 630, 503]]<|/det|>
DATES: The EIS development process for the Farmington Macros- Gallup RMP Amendment is terminated immediately.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 504, 625, 730]]<|/det|>
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: BLM Farmington Field Office Project Manager Sarah Scott, sccott@blm.gov, 505- 564- 7689 or BIA Navajo Region Office Regional Archeologist/Project Manager Robert Begay, robert.begay1@ bia.gov, 505- 863- 8515. Individuals in the United States who are deaf, deafblind, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability may dial 711 (TTY, TDD, or TeleBraille) to access telecommunications relay services for contacting Ms. Scott or Mr. Begay. Individuals outside the United States should use the relay services offered within their country to make international calls to the point- of- contact in the United States.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 732, 630, 934]]<|/det|>
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as implemented by the Council on Environmental Quality regulations, the BLM announced its intent to prepare an RMP Amendment and associated EIS on February 25, 2014 (79 FR 10548). On October 21, 2016, the BLM and the BIA published an amended Notice of Intent in the Federal Register announcing the addition of the BIA as a joint/co- lead agency for the EIS (81 FR 72819). The purpose of the EIS was to analyze the impacts of additional oil and gas development within the San Juan Basin in northwestern New  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 72, 923, 640]]<|/det|>
Mexico, as well as decisions related to lands and reality, BLM- managed lands with wilderness characteristics, and vegetation management. The EIS was also to evaluate alternatives and issues related to the BIA's authority over mineral leasing and associated activity decisions on Navajo Tribal Trust Lands and Navajo Indian allotments. The Notice of Availability for the Draft EIS published in the Federal Register on February 28, 2020 (85 FR 12012). The bureaus distributed the Draft EIS to various Federal, State, and local agencies, elected officials, special interest groups, interested individuals, and the media. Due to the COVID- 19 pandemic and restrictions placed on in- person meetings, virtual public hearings were held on May 14, 15, 16, and 18, 2020, as well as on August 26, 27, 28, and 29, 2020. Since the initial publication of the Notices of Intent in 2014 and 2016, and the publication of the draft RMP Amendment and EIS in 2020, there have been many changes relevant to the plan amendment and associated EIS, such as a change in the development trends in the San Juan Basin; the withdrawal of 336,404 acres from mineral entry around the Chaco Culture National Historical Park; the preparation of BIA- funded ethnographic studies for the region; the establishment of the Honoring Chaco Initiative; and an increase in outdoor recreation in the region. Given these changes and the extent of revisions necessary to address these changes in the current EIS process, the agencies determined it is impractical to continue the plan amendment effort as currently structured. Therefore, the BLM and BIA hereby terminate preparation of the EIS for the RMP Amendment.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 642, 916, 653]]<|/det|>
(Authority: 40 CFR 1506.6, 40 CFR 1506.10)  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 661, 900, 744]]<|/det|>
Melanie G. Barnes, BLM New Mexico State Director, Deborah S. Shirley, Acting BIA Navajo Region Director. [FR Doc. 2024- 15278 Filed 7- 11- 24; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4331- 23- P  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[649, 766, 887, 780]]<|/det|>
## DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 789, 904, 815]]<|/det|>
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 820, 914, 855]]<|/det|>
[Docket ID BSEE- 2024- 0003; EEEE500000 245E1700D2 ET1SF0000.EAQ000; OMB Control Number 1014- 0023]  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 864, 897, 902]]<|/det|>
Agency Information Collection Activities; Pollution Prevention and Control  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 908, 903, 934]]<|/det|>
AGENCY: Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Interior.