<|ref|>image<|/ref|><|det|>[[125, 44, 800, 425]]<|/det|>
<|ref|>image_caption<|/ref|><|det|>[[44, 439, 875, 453]]<|/det|>
<center>Fig. 2—Microstructures of alloy B in (a) as-cast and (b) SHTed (8 h) conditions; and EBSD results of (c) \(\alpha\) -Fe in (b) and (d) STed \(\beta\) -Fe in (b). </center>  

<|ref|>table<|/ref|><|det|>[[40, 492, 891, 597]]<|/det|>
<|ref|>table_caption<|/ref|><|det|>[[137, 470, 789, 486]]<|/det|>
Table II. Chemical Compositions of Iron-Rich Intermetallics in the As-Cast and SHTed Conditions   

<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Conditions</td><td rowspan="2">Iron-Rich Intermetallics</td><td colspan="5">Elements (Wt Pct)</td></tr><tr><td>Al</td><td>Si</td><td>Mn</td><td>Fe</td><td>Cu</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">As-cast</td><td>α-Fe</td><td>70.92 ± 0.76</td><td>7.8 ± 0.35</td><td>3.15 ± 0.25</td><td>13.21 ± 0.42</td><td>4.91 ± 0.24</td></tr><tr><td>β-Fe</td><td>70.28 ± 0.67</td><td>0</td><td>1.57 ± 0.21</td><td>7.51 ± 0.31</td><td>20.64 ± 0.58</td></tr><tr><td>α-Fe</td><td>74.43 ± 0.82</td><td>6.68 ± 0.46</td><td>3.54 ± 0.31</td><td>9.92 ± 0.23</td><td>5.43 ± 0.31</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">SHTed (8 h)</td><td>α-Fe</td><td>75.10 ± 0.85</td><td>0</td><td>1.42 ± 0.12</td><td>7.27 ± 0.25</td><td>16.21 ± 0.56</td></tr><tr><td>STed β-Fe</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></table>  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[42, 627, 446, 737]]<|/det|>
contents of Mn and Si, which is consistent with the literature. [16,30] After being SHTed for 8 hours, almost the entire amount of \(\mathrm{Al}_2\mathrm{Cu}\) is dissolved into the Al matrix as shown in Figure 2(b). It is also interesting to note that the Chinese script \(\alpha\) - Fe phase becomes unstable and is transformed into a small amount of short intermetallic platelets, leading to the fragmentation of the \(\alpha\) - Fe.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[43, 737, 446, 888], [484, 627, 888, 888]]<|/det|>
The chemical compositions of the iron- rich intermetallics in Alloy B in the as- cast and SHTed (for 8 hours) conditions measured by SEM- EDS are shown in Table II. It can be found that higher Al contents are detected in the \(\alpha\) - Fe and STed \(\beta\) - Fe after SHT than the corresponding iron- rich phases solidified directly from the liquid. This can be attributed to the partial contribution of the surrounding Al matrix due to the small sizes of the fragmented \(\alpha\) - Fe and STed \(\beta\) - Fe particles after SHT. Compared with the as- cast condition, it can be found that the iron content in \(\alpha\) - Fe is reduced after SHT for 8 hours. As shown in Figure 2(c), however, the EBSD results with a mean angular deviation (MAD) of 0.452, lower than 0.7 which is considered to be critical for an accurate solution, [31] indicate that this phase is still the \(\alpha\) - Fe (body- centered cubic with \(a\) , \(b\) , and \(c\) as 1.265 nm [11]). Moreover, the platelet- like intermetallic phase formed during the SHT has a similar chemical composition to the \(\beta\) - Fe obtained in the as- cast condition (Table II) and thus is termed as solid- state- transformed \(\beta\) - Fe (STed \(\beta\) - Fe) to distinguish it from the \(\beta\) - Fe directly precipitated from liquid metal during solidification. The formation of the STed \(\beta\) - Fe is further confirmed a low MAD value of 0.258 as measured by EBSD (Figure 2(d)), The STed \(\beta\) - Fe is most likely to have the same crystal structure as the solidified \(\beta\) - Fe (tetragonal with a and b of 0.634 nm and c of 1.488 nm [11]) due to their similar diffraction patterns. However, the STed \(\beta\) - Fe has lower Cu content than the \(\beta\) - Fe (Table II), and the replacement of the Cu by Al