<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[59, 147, 525, 200]]<|/det|>
## Enjoy the journey  

<|ref|>image<|/ref|><|det|>[[55, 260, 336, 496]]<|/det|>  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[55, 517, 208, 550]]<|/det|>
Melissa Wang Consulting Partner  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[355, 256, 625, 385]]<|/det|>
On 3 March 2020, there were 125 newly confirmed cases and 129 newly suspected cases of COVID- 19 in China. That same day, Melissa Wang, a Consulting Partner from Deloitte Western Region office, took off on her first business trip since the pandemic began.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[355, 400, 640, 721]]<|/det|>
"While I was filling the business travel application form, my colleagues kept asking whether I really had to go." Melissa recalls with a smile. "My client had returned to their office half a month ago. They had to complete communication and sign- off on performance by the first quarter, and had encountered implementation challenges. As a key part of the solution, it made sense for Deloitte to be present and solve these problems alongside the client. However, after considering everyone's safety, the team decided it should minimize travel frequency, so I went by myself and the project members provided support remotely." As a result, Melissa completed most of the required travel alone throughout March.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[659, 257, 941, 576]]<|/det|>
With many years' experience in Life Sciences & Health Care Consulting, Melissa possessed a better understanding of the risks of contracting and spreading COVID- 19 than many other colleagues. Colleagues' safety was the first thing that came to Melissa's mind. "No one had ever encountered this situation before. My first reaction was to ensure everyone's safety," she explains. "We had to follow the safety guidelines issued by Deloitte, and since I had related knowledge and experience from my Life Sciences & Health Care work, I was able to share research and reports on the epidemic to raise awareness, such as how to effectively prevent the virus and which anti- epidemic materials needed to be prepared."  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[659, 594, 937, 706]]<|/det|>
"After ensuring the safety of colleagues, I started to think about and plan how to continue projects amid COVID- 19. Having agreed to meet clients after Chinese New Year, I needed to negotiate with them about whether we should adjust to remote working