compared with a control group of about 11,000 people who got nothing. The most striking pattern was of recipients leaving waged work on farms to open shops. When payments were scheduled for the full 12 years, the number of non-farm enterprises rose by a quarter, and their profits nearly doubled. Recipients ate more protein and reported lower rates of depression. Land became more expensive, but it appears consumer goods did not.

That is evidence that giving people money helps them, but not how best to do it. So the researchers also compared a group of villages where payments were drip-fed in monthly instalments with other villages where the equivalent sum was given upfront. Business outcomes were better when people got all the money at once, enabling them to make chunky investments. Otherwise they had to patiently accumulate funds by stowing their stipend in local savings groups.

The findings are further proof, if any were needed, that poor people know what to do with their money. “Two big worries with any of these interventions is that they’ll make people lazy and they’ll make them consume badly, and you see neither,” says Mr Banerjee. People said they did not drink more booze, although liquor stores made higher profits, perhaps because patrons bought pricier drinks.

The study has attracted the interest of officials from California, who visited some of the villages in August. Lump-sum payments are already part of some pilot programmes in America, such as a scheme in Flint, a city in Michigan. Next year it will give $1,500 to expectant mothers, followed by a monthly allowance of $500 in their child’s first year. The research is also relevant to social-protection programmes in poor countries, where cash transfers are replacing in-kind handouts, such as food.

But some are disconcerted by the idea of NGOs running large-scale social experiments, however benign the intent. The documentary “Free Money”, released last year, explores GiveDirectly’s impact on one Kenyan village. The film follows jubilant recipients as they install clean-water taps and extend their homes. It also captures the unfairness felt by others who live just outside the catchment area of the scheme, or are excluded by some quirk of registration. They wonder why they were the unlucky ones, comparing the mysterious ways of foreign benefactors to unknowable acts of God.

Those are the kind of gnarly problems that bedevil targeted welfare programmes, and which the principle of universality is supposed to avoid. But unless the idea of providing a basic income is taken up by governments, schemes will always be limited in scope. Ones that rely on charity will never be truly universal.

Citizenship in Kenya
Please accept me
NAIROBI
Documents are belatedly being granted to groups once deemed foreign

IDENTITY CARDS are a big deal in Kenya. Without them you cannot marry, register to vote or get salaried jobs. Nor can you open a bank account, go to university or legally buy a sim card. Walking around without papers can even get you arrested, a hangover from the colonial era when many African workers needed a special pass. Though that is legally dubious, few Kenyans, especially those without documentation, dare challenge the police. “If you don’t have an ID, you don’t exist,” says Mustafa Mahmoud of Namati, a group that campaigns for legal rights for the poor.

For most Kenyans, applying for an ID card is quite simple. A school leaving certificate and a copy of a parent’s ID will usually do. Yet some ethnic groups have still faced discrimination when applying. If your forebears migrated to Kenya during British colonial rule, you were still officially deemed foreign at independence in 1963. Generations later, long after losing touch with your ethnic homeland, for instance if it is Somalia, the government would not recognise you as a Kenyan citizen. Thousands were left in a bureaucratic limbo. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) reckons that 16,800 people in Kenya are stateless. But the true number is probably far higher.

In 2016 Kenya’s then president, Uhuru Kenyatta, declared that the Makonde, about 6,000 of whom came up from Mozambique and Tanzania in the 1940s, would “become Kenyans”; several thousand got ID cards. Mr Kenyatta later made a similar offer to the Shona people, originally from Zimbabwe, and to a small community of Rwandans. His successor, William Ruto, said the Pemba, originally from an island north of Zanzibar, constituted “one of the ethnic communities of Kenya”. He ceremoniously handed them some 7,000 ID cards.

These presidential interventions raise awkward issues for Kenya, says Samantha Balaton-Chrimes of Deakin University in Australia. They suggest that the Kenyan state is “fumbling its way towards a kind of inclusivity” yet entrench the idea that citizenship is linked to the notion of ethnicity.

That is troubling because it can be used to legitimise discrimination against certain groups. For instance, ethnic Somalis and people of Nubian descent still face extra vetting when applying for IDs. The police and security officials sometimes grill them with harsh demands for proof of descent. Some vetting committees ask people to prove that all of their grandparents were born in Kenya—often an impossible task.

Things may, however, be improving. Most Nubians now eventually get an ID if they request one. But ethnic Somalis, a few of whom have been involved in jihadist terrorism on Kenyan territory and beyond, are sometimes still given a hard time proving their credentials when renewing their ID cards, if they are lucky enough to have one in the first place.

Moreover, the procedure can be frighteningly random and can require bribes. “There’s an absolute lack of due process and oversight,” says Bronwen Manby, a lawyer at the London School of Economics. “Nothing is written down anywhere: it’s just internal departmental directives and you don’t know the rules.”

Nubian activists say a batch of IDs issued since 2021 were faulty, preventing their holders from opening bank accounts or registering SIM cards. Government officials apologised, explaining that the “ethnic code” had been incorrectly entered. This appears to have been a clerical error and the issue was resolved. ID cards are not supposed to specify ethnicity at all. But suspicions were aroused that any ID code could be used by officials for malign purposes, such as tracing a voting record.