compasses far more than economics, and it is here that the calculus for Mr Xi may lean the other way. He resents the Western-led world order and wants to establish China as an alternative centre of power. Mr Trump’s tempestuous relationship with America’s allies in Europe and Asia may undermine cohesion with them on China policy if he is elected again. His contemptuous remarks about NATO, including his recent suggestion that he would not offer American protection to allies who fail to spend enough on defence, are music to China’s ears. It sees NATO as a cold-war relic that the West uses to preserve its dominance. For the same reason, it relishes any tension in America’s relationships with Japan and South Korea, such as Mr Trump caused by threatening the withdrawal of American troops from those countries if their governments would not agree to big increases in their contributions to the cost of maintaining the bases.

A Trump administration might unwind the work Mr Biden has done to nurture Asian partnerships. To China’s chagrin, he created a new grouping, known as AUKUS, aimed at strengthening co-operation with Australia and Britain in responding to the security challenge posed by China’s navy in the Indian Ocean and Pacific. China, inaccurately, calls it “NATO-like”. Still, AUKUS involves exactly the kind of long-term, rather than transactional, relationship that Mr Trump dislikes.

Similarly on Taiwan, Mr Trump may be preferable for China. Mr Biden has sometimes gone beyond the conventional, ambivalent, language about America’s commitments to the island. He has said repeatedly that American troops would defend Taiwan if China invaded, only for his aides to walk back his comments after Chinese outrage. Mr Trump is probably far less enthusiastic about protecting the island. In his memoir, John Bolton, who served as Mr Trump’s national security adviser in 2018 and 2019 before a bitter parting of ways, wrote of Mr Trump’s “grousing” about weapons sales to Taiwan. Mr Trump was “dyspeptic” about Taiwan, Mr Bolton said, suggesting his boss lacked commitment to a “democratic ally”.

Above all else, Mr Xi wants stability. The views of Chinese scholars probably echo official thinking. In an interview in state media in January, Yan Xuetong of Tsinghua University in Beijing said that the candidates would compete to show “who is more anti-China” than the other: “If we want to prevent confrontation between the two sides from getting out of control and escalating into a conflict, our country needs to take some proactive measures.” Mr Biden’s approach to China is likely to be more predictable but better organised and enforced, and perhaps a bigger threat in the long run. Mr Trump’s potential for chaos and excesses could create opportunities for China to outmanoeuvre America but also bring the instability China dreads.

Could there be a way out of superpower confrontation? Wu Xinbo of Fudan University in Shanghai suggests that Mr Biden offers hope for Sino-American ties. In an online article he describes Mr Trump as a “unilateralist”, having little need for China’s help. “But Biden still hopes to maintain America’s dominant position in the world,” writes Mr Wu. “As long as the United States wants to deal with many global problems, it cannot do without co-operation with China.” Yet amid a military build-up and fraying trade ties such optimism is rare. Mr Xi will be watching the vote counts in November closely: the two likely candidates present China with very different challenges. But even as he waits for a result, he will know that however divided American politics may be, hostility towards China is now a bipartisan matter, and deeply entrenched. For him and for America the election cycle is part of a longer-term struggle.

Academic research

Science fiction

BEIJING
Fake research is rampant in China. The government is trying to stop it

HUANG FEIRUO was once a respected scientist who studied ways to make pigs gain weight more quickly. He ran government-funded research projects at Huazhong Agricultural University in the central city of Wuhan. But last month 11 of his graduate students accused him of plagiarising the work of other academics and fabricating data. He had also, they said, put pressure on them to fake their own research. On February 6th the university announced that it had fired Mr Huang and retracted some of his work.

Scientific fraud is all too common in China. Bad incentives are a big part of the problem. Chinese universities typically reward researchers with promotions and funding based on the quantity of papers they publish, not the quality. That has got results. In 2017, for the first time, China published more scientific papers than any other country. It has kept the top spot ever since. But while some of the research has been cutting-edge, much has been dodgy.

The scale of the problem is hard to measure, as fraudulent work often goes unnoticed. But it is useful to look at retractions, or when a scientific journal withdraws a study, usually due to suspicions of research misconduct. Papers from China have the fourth-highest retraction rate in the world, according to Nature, a journal (see chart). In a database of some 50,000 retracted studies compiled by Crossref, an American non-profit, and Retraction Watch, a blog, about 46% are from China.

What real research looks like