compassion.” When she tried this on herself, Beck says she could “dramatically feel this shift in my psychology, my body and my brain”. And then, she says with a laugh, “I got into creativity and things got really weird.”

We’re speaking over zoom, with Beck at home in Pennsylvania. One of her paintings of the forest that surrounds her house, is on the wall behind her. The anxiety spiral, she decided, needed not just to be calmed, but to be replaced with something else: curiosity and creativity. She noticed, she writes in her new book, Beyond Anxiety: Curiosity, Creativity and Finding Your Life’s Purpose, a kind of “toggle effect between anxiety and creativity, when one is up and running, the other seems to go silent”.

Beck’s previous book, The Way of Integrity - which summed up her philosophy of achieving happiness through being true to yourself - was, she thought, “my farewell to self-help. The basic premise is that if you can find out your truth, whatever that is, and live according to it, you will have an anxiety-free life and peace. And I stand by that. But after it was published, a lot of people said, ‘I’m living in total integrity, but I’m so scared all the time.’ It was the same for Beck. She knew her anxious thoughts were just that - a fear response gone awry in a moment that wasn’t actually dangerous - but merely knowing it wasn’t enough. She needed to get out of her mind.

She swapped her anxiety journal for a creativity journal, losing herself in drawing and painting, which she still makes time for every day, but she stresses that we shouldn’t stick to society’s idea of what “creative expression” entails. It could be making a sandwich or working out how to fix the car. “It’s anything that you create, whether that’s a dinner party or a doodle, or a conversation or setting up a table and then leaving it. It doesn’t need to be high art, but it’s making something, and that will connect you with curiosity.” She became obsessed by her creative work. “What shocked me was the euphoria of it. It was much more powerful than the times when I have taken medication to stop anxiety.” She also noticed it in others who had embraced creativity, in the videos workshops and online community she started. “People have been anxious for a couple of years now,” she says. “And the 60 years prior to that, I was always anxious.”

Beck is routinely described as “Oprah Winfrey’s life coach” - she first appeared on Winfrey’s TV show in 2000, and for a long time wrote advice for the presenter’s magazine. This is the second time I’ve spoken to Beck since we first spoke many years ago; she has become something of a self-help superstar. This year, she has appeared on a run of high-profile podcasts. She must be pleased with the success she’s had? “I don’t care,” she says with a laugh. “I do not freakin’ care. You know what I care about today? The painting I’m doing. I’m obsessed with this painting, like I keep looking at it. I’ve got my watercolour palette right here.” She likes to practise the philosophy of non-attachment. While she says that if her new book can help people feel good, my joy and my unburdened, “it’s personal. If she has no interest in how it will do, “it could totally fail, I don’t care. I’m not even looking - I’m interested in the next book.” She laughs. “Do not tell my publisher!”

It’s an understatement to say that Beck does not follow the script, but she stopped caring what people thought long ago. She was raised in Utah, in a large Mormon family, but left the church when she was 18, after surviving sexual abuse by her father, a prominent Mormon scholar. She swapped faith for rationality, went to Harvard where she collected degrees in sociology and became a lecturer, then - to the dismay of many big-brained people around her - abandoned her career in academia to become a life coach. She had married and had three children, then her then husband left both her and their kids. She has been with her partner, Karen, for more than 20 years, and now they are in a “throuple” with another partner, the writer and podcaster Rowan Mangan (Beck and Mangan host a podcast together). Four years ago, at the age of 58, Beck became a mother again when Mangan had their daughter, Lila. “It’s amazing,” says Beck, beaming. “We have such courageous and fearless kids. Karen fell in love with Mangan first. [She] came to me and said, I’m feeling so much love, I don’t know what this is! And I was like, ‘You’re in love. This is amazing. I really thought they would move into the master bedroom and I would go into the guest room. I looked for the fear and the anxiety and the guilt, but there was nothing but joy. I’ll tell you, I’ve never felt so free. We hung out some more saying, ‘This is normal, right?’” she laughs. “Finally, we’re like, we’re all in love with each other. How does this even happen?”

It’s not like she went looking for a polyamorous relationship, she says she knows it sounds wacky and outside the societal norm - (though it is part of the culture for some Mormons - ironically for Beck, who abandoned her child-hood religion). “I started to think, it’s not weird that I love my three kids - and now I have a fourth, and I love her too. People can accept that, but the idea that you can partner with more than one person, that’s just culturally unusual for us. But now I think about it. I’m like, how do people make it work with just two? That’s like a two-legged stool, there’s no stability there.” Of course they all get angry and frustrated at times, she says, but “what it amounts to is you’ve got two other people who say, ‘I’ve got your back.’”

Beck’s son Adam, who is in his 30s and lives in New York, also lives with them. “We’re just such an odd little bunch, out in the forest, and I live in a state of perpetual awe at the ways things unfold. If I were to write a memoir about my entire life, I think it would be called ‘I did not see that coming.’”

It is often said that we live in the age of anxiety. Beck smiles and says, “I agree, but the Black Death must have been a real anxiety generator. World war not so awesome. But what I think we have now is this incredible engine of information in the internet.” It’s not just the frightening or unsettling stories we see every day in the news, she says, it’s also the endless cruelty and hostility of people on social media and in forums. “There’s a tremendous amount of that ziplining back and forth!” “We’re stuck in our age,” she says, “where knowledge is power, and power is money, and people have monetised other people’s attention - and nothing gets higher levels of attention than fear. Even sex doesn’t hold a candle to fear. So it’s a very deliberate strategy to upset people more and more as they get numbed to certain levels of expressed threat.” On a personal level, anxiety can make us feel “deeper”, Beck says. “It’s like processing all your worst characteristics, and then you desperately look for a way to feel better”. It could be substances, it could be relationships or shouting at people on the internet. “You get angry and self-loathing, and it just goes on and on unless you stop it.”

On a societal level, Beck believes anxiety carries a lot of responsibility for “judgment, comparison. Polarisation is the biggest one.” Anxiety “makes us unlike [and] more likely to try to control other people’s stories, to say how they’re not good and how they’re not there to help you, they’re going to hurt you, and anything other than you is extremely other”. If Beck did have a flash of anxiety - rare for her these days - it was at the re-election of Donald Trump, who “wields fear like a weapon. Trump’s alarming and theatrical pronouncements about the dangers of migrants to climate scientists “gets the brains’ attention. The marketplace of fear out there is hard at work making other people scared, and I do think that is at an all-time high.” As a sociologist, “I was looking at the way the entire culture is feeding the spin of anxiety into all of us”.

We all know by now that anxiety gives us an evolutionary advantage: “If you’re in a dangerous and collective mood, the norm, you want to pay attention to the cobra and get to the puppies later,” says Beck. “That means that we immediately preferentially pay attention to anything negative, and that starts this spin of anxiety. But what fires together, wires together.” Instead of defaulting to anxiety, Beck says it would be more helpful to rewire the brain to seek curiosity and creativity. “If you’re being swept away by a great passion is unhelpful; it will probably start as just a flicker. You may be slightly curious, you know, about something like meteors, just random things. And then you might, from your bed, watch a show about hunting for meteorites. And then you might think, ‘Well, that sounds interesting’. I’m going to get myself a model detector and a telescope and go and see them and have space. Human curiosity is so admirable - we have ‘neotony’, that thing that makes us childcare all our lives. You get your passion back, but first you get it as curiosity, and then you get connection, and it builds.”

Writing this book, and delving deep into anxiety, has been life-changing for Beck. “It was like being given this immense gift, just yesterday. I didn’t want to be able to talk all the time. ‘I’m just thought. I don’t think I have to be anxious any more’ A life without anxiety, she adds, “is not just OK, it’s euphoric”.

Beyond Anxiety by Martha Beck is published by Piatkus on 7 January. Beyond Anxiety by Martha Beck (Little Brown Book Group, £16.99). To support the Guardian and Observer, order your copy at guardianbookshop.com. Delivery charges may apply.

▲ A life without anxiety is not just OK - it’s euphoric... Martha Beck at home in New Hope, Pennsylvania. Photograph: Caroline Gutman/The Guardian

▲ Beck in her home studio: 'I haven't been anxious for a couple of years now. And the 60 years prior to that, I was always uncoast'. Photograph: Caroline Gutman/The Guardian

From Igbo to Angika: how to save the world’s 3,000 endangered languages

Kaamil Ahmed

Every year, the world loses some of its 7,000 languages. Parents stop-speaking them to their children, words are forgotten and communities lose the ability to read their own scripts. The rate of loss is quickening, from one every three months a decade ago to one every 40 days in 2019 - meaning nine languages die a year.

The UN’s culture agency, Unesco, says predictions that half the world’s languages will have died out by the end of the century are optimistic.

Some languages are disappearing with their last speakers, but thousands are endangered because they are not being spoken widely enough or are not being used in formal settings such as schools or workplaces.

“A quiet fightback is under way in communities that feel their traditions are drowned out by the dominance of the most spoken languages globally, such as English, or by the official languages of their country.

Continued on page 34