<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 152, 343, 268]]<|/det|>
This section of the FEDERAL REGISTER contains documents other than rules or proposed rules that are applicable to the public. Notices of hearings and investigations, committee meetings, agency decisions and rulings, delegations of authority, filing of petitions and applications and agency statements of organization and functions are examples of documents appearing in this section.  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[72, 290, 296, 303]]<|/det|>
## COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[72, 313, 331, 339]]<|/det|>
## Agenda and Notice of Public Meeting of the Oregon Advisory Committee  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[71, 348, 344, 536]]<|/det|>
Notice is hereby given, pursuant to the provisions of the rules and regulations of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights (Commission) and the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA) that the Oregon Advisory Committee (Committee) will meet on Thursday, August 22, 2013. The meeting will convene at 2:00 p.m. and adjourn at approximately 4:00 p.m. The meeting will be held at the Hillsdale Library, 1525 SW Sunset Boulevard, Portland, OR 97329. The purpose of the meeting is for the Committee to plan future activities.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[71, 537, 344, 740]]<|/det|>
The meeting is open to the public, and members of the public are entitled to submit written comments. Written comments may be mailed to the Western Regional Office, U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, 300 N Los Angeles St., Suite 2010, Los Angeles, CA, 90012. They may also be faxed to the Commission at (213) 894- 0507 or emailed to the Commission at atrevino@usccr.gov. Submitted comments must be received by September 30, 2013. Persons who desire additional information may contact the Western Regional Office at (213) 894- 3437.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[71, 742, 336, 829]]<|/det|>
Hearing- impaired persons who will attend the meeting and require the services of a sign language interpreter should contact the Western Regional Office at least ten (10) working days before the scheduled date of the meeting.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[71, 830, 345, 933]]<|/det|>
Records generated from this meeting may be inspected and reproduced at the Western Regional Office, as they become available, both before and after the meeting. Persons interested in the work of this Committee are directed to the Commission's Web site, http:// www.usccr.gov, or may contact the  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 152, 620, 178]]<|/det|>
Western Regional Office at the above email or street address.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 178, 630, 214]]<|/det|>
The meeting will be conducted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Commission and FACA.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 218, 590, 231]]<|/det|>
Dated in Chicago, IL, July 31, 2013.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 232, 555, 270]]<|/det|>
David Mussatt, Acting Chief, Regional Programs Coordination Unit.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 272, 597, 283]]<|/det|>
[FR Doc. 2013- 18836 Filed 8- 5- 13; 8:45 am]  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 287, 490, 297]]<|/det|>
BILLING CODE 6335- 01- P  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 322, 582, 334]]<|/det|>
## DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 345, 567, 371]]<|/det|>
## Submission for OMB Review; Comment Request  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 380, 630, 465]]<|/det|>
The Department of Commerce will submit to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for clearance the following proposal for collection of information under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35).  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 466, 630, 491]]<|/det|>
Agency: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 491, 629, 516]]<|/det|>
Title: Alaska American Fisheries Act (AFA): Permits.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 516, 610, 528]]<|/det|>
OMB Control Number: 0648- 0393.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 528, 510, 540]]<|/det|>
Form Number(s): NA.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 540, 627, 578]]<|/det|>
Type of Request: Regular submission (revision and extension of a current information collection).  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 578, 567, 590]]<|/det|>
Number of Respondents: 27.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 590, 580, 602]]<|/det|>
Average Hours per Response:  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 602, 625, 744]]<|/det|>
Application for AFA Permit for Replacement Vessel, 30 minutes; Application for AFA Cooperative Permit, 2 hours; Vessel Contract Fishing Notification, 4 hours; Approval as an Entity Eligible to Receive Transferable Chinook Salmon Prohibited Species Quota (PSC) Allocation, 8 hours; Application to Transfer Bering Sea Chinook Salmon PSC Allocation, 15 minutes.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 744, 525, 756]]<|/det|>
Burden Hours: 112.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 756, 625, 794]]<|/det|>
Needs and Uses: This request is for revision and extension of a currently approved information collection.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[360, 794, 636, 933]]<|/det|>
In response to the American Fisheries Act (AFA), NMFS developed a management program for Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area (BSAI) pollock to include a set of AFA permanent permits for AFA catcher/ processors, AFA catcher vessels, AFA inshore processors, and AFA motherships. All vessels and processors participating in the non- Community Development Quota (CDQ) BSAI pollock  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 152, 911, 191]]<|/det|>
fishery are required to have valid AFA permits on board the vessel or on site at the processing plant.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 194, 921, 310]]<|/det|>
With the exceptions of the inshore vessel cooperatives, replacement vessel, and inshore vessel contract fishing applications, the AFA permit program had a one- time application deadline of December 1, 2000. All permitted participants in the AFA pollock fishery are already established and are issued with an indefinite expiration date.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 315, 920, 559]]<|/det|>
In a previous revision to this collection, a PSC limit of Chinook salmon was established for the pollock industry participants in an industry- developed contractual arrangement, called an incentive plan agreement (IPA) that establishes an incentive program to minimize bycatch at all levels of Chinook salmon abundance. NMFS issues transferable Chinook salmon PSC allocations to eligible entities representing the catcher/ processor sector, the mothership sector, inshore cooperatives, and CDQ groups. Transferable allocations provide the pollock fleet the flexibility to maximize the harvest of pollock while maintaining Chinook salmon bycatch at or below the PSC limit.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 562, 920, 625]]<|/det|>
Revision: The notary signature requirements have been removed from the Application for Replacement Vessel and the Application for Inshore Catcher Vessel Cooperative Permit.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 629, 921, 655]]<|/det|>
Affected Public: Business or other profit organizations.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 659, 921, 684]]<|/det|>
Frequency: Annually and on occasion.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 687, 920, 711]]<|/det|>
Respondent's Obligation: Required to obtain or retain benefits.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 714, 840, 740]]<|/det|>
OMB Desk Officer: OIRA_Submission@omb.eop.gov.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 741, 920, 850]]<|/det|>
Copies of the above information collection proposal can be obtained by calling or writing Jennifer Jessup, Departmental Paperwork Clearance Officer, (202) 482- 0336, Department of Commerce, Room 6616, 14th and Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20230 (or via the Internet at Jlessup@doc.gov).  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[648, 854, 900, 930]]<|/det|>
Written comments and recommendations for the proposed information collection should be sent within 30 days of publication of this notice to OIRA_Submission@omb.eop.gov.