<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[72, 113, 935, 180]]<|/det|>
role in our daily life. Generally, it's advantages can be seen as follows.
First ______ (A的优点一). Besides ______ (A的优点二) 

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[72, 177, 933, 270]]<|/det|>
But every coin has two sides. The negative aspects are also
apparent. One of the important disadvantages is that ______ (A的第一
个缺点). To make matters worse, ______ (A的第二个缺点) 

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[72, 269, 930, 362]]<|/det|>
Through the above analysis, I believe that the positive aspects
overweigh the negative ones. Therefore, I would like to ______ (我的看
法). 

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[72, 362, 930, 490]]<|/det|>
(From the comparison between these positive and negative
effects of A, we should take it reasonably and do it according
to the circumstances we are in. Only by this way, ______ (对前
景的预测).) 

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[92, 488, 310, 516]]<|/det|>
## 三、议论文的框架 

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[92, 518, 465, 549]]<|/det|>
### (1) 不同观点、列举型 (选择型) 

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[67, 546, 925, 860]]<|/det|>
There is a widespread concern over the issue that 作文题目.
But it is well known that the opinion concerning this hot topic
varies from person to person. A majority of people think that
观点一: In their views there are 2 factors contributing to this
attitude as follows: in the first place, 原因一. Furthermore, in the
second place, 原因二. So it goes without saying that 观点二.
People, however, differ in their opinions on this matter. Some people
hold the idea that 观点一: In their point of view, on the one hand,
原因一. On the other hand, 原因二. Therefore, there is no doubt that
观点二. 

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[67, 860, 920, 935]]<|/det|>
As far as I am concerned, 1 firmly support the view that
观点一或二: It is not only because, but also because ______.