<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[144, 106, 480, 335]]<|/det|>
consumers opting for care at home, in outpatient or retail settings, or even on the go via mobile devices. With the proliferation of technologies such as AI, we can picture a world where you wake up in the morning and your personalized smart device tells you exactly which supplements to take based on your nutrition profile, environment, activity, and stress levels over the past week. The device might know when you are coming down with the flu before symptoms appear. It might know when you need more sleep, or even predict risks of a mental health disorder, based on changes in speech patterns.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[144, 353, 480, 512]]<|/det|>
Over the last several years, hospital inpatient revenue has been shrinking as more care shifts to outpatient settings, according to a recent Deloitte analysis of hospital revenue trends. In the future, we expect some outpatient care will shift to virtual settings. To prepare, health care organizations should think about how these industry trends might line up with their investments in the coming years.  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[142, 544, 476, 650]]<|/det|>
## Three out of four executives think that in the next decade, industrywide investments in virtual health will be significantly higher than today  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[144, 672, 477, 830]]<|/det|>
The virtual health market in the United States is projected to grow more than 23 percent annually over the next five years, reaching close to US\\$100 billion by 2025, according to a recent estimate. Our surveyed executives predict industrywide investments in the next decade will be significantly higher than today- 74 percent anticipate that investments in virtual health will increase by 25 percent or more (figure 3).  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[144, 849, 470, 882]]<|/det|>
Some of our interviewees noted that virtual visits and virtual consults have the potential to offset or  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[514, 100, 576, 112]]<|/det|>
FIGURE 3  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[514, 117, 828, 170]]<|/det|>
## By 2030, industrywide investments in virtual health will increase significantly  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[514, 161, 808, 184]]<|/det|>
Industrywide investments in virtual health by 2030  

<|ref|>image<|/ref|><|det|>[[525, 194, 825, 360]]<|/det|>  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[514, 380, 664, 402]]<|/det|>
Note: Total responses \(= 50\) Source: Deloitte analysis.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[515, 425, 852, 495]]<|/det|>
ameliorate the shortages or uneven distribution of specialists such as nutritionists, genetic counselors, and palliative care. Other services ripe for significant virtual health migration include:  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[523, 513, 848, 741]]<|/det|>
- Behavioral health: In-person office visits for behavioral health will be the exception, and telehealth visits will be the rule, according to many of our interviewees. Executives discussed the potential of tele-behavioral health to treat depression, anxiety, substance abuse, and weight management, to name a few. Having access to behavioral health could help improve the prevention and treatment of chronic conditions. People who struggle with depression, for example, can find it difficult to adhere to treatment regimens or stick to a healthy diet or fitness plan.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[523, 760, 848, 882]]<|/det|>
- Oncology: Patients who receive cancer treatment, along with their caregivers, can spend a lot of time navigating the health care system. Some advanced health systems have already rolled out virtual check-ins to reduce time spent in waiting rooms. For some patients who do not live near a specialist, telehealth in a