<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 101, 923, 144]]<|/det|>
## Interview with Vladislav Kreynin.  

<|ref|>image<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 166, 267, 333]]<|/det|>  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 350, 216, 364]]<|/det|>
## Vladislav Kreynin  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[70, 365, 264, 440]]<|/det|>
Senior Vice President and Director of the Marketing and Communications Department, Sber  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[287, 171, 892, 201]]<|/det|>
## How has Sber managed to maintain its leading position in terms of both value and brand strength for so many years?  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[288, 201, 909, 292]]<|/det|>
Over a year ago, we rebranded as Sber. We are constantly improving and developing. Sber is not only the largest bank in Russia and in Central and Eastern Europe today, but we are also the top technology company in Russia and a leader behind the digitalisation of the national economy. While relying on an impressive consumer base of 104 million, Sber is aiming to diversify further into a new demographic of Gen Z users with a new digital services offering. The number of SberBank Online users exceeded 73 million in December 2021.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[288, 306, 927, 411]]<|/det|>
Sber's ecosystem provides customers with an immense range of digital services for various tasks and in various areas. Clients come to us to open an account, buy shares, insure property, watch movies, listen to music, call a taxi, consult a doctor online, and much, much more. They expect us to provide products driven by the latest trends. It is important to them that the company's products are modern and, at the same time, organic and convenient. This is precisely the kind of services Sber offers. A seamless customer journey and high- quality services - all these elements undoubtedly contribute to our excellent reputation and brand awareness among clients.  

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[288, 434, 772, 448]]<|/det|>
## Could you tell us more about your achievements in 2021?  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[288, 447, 925, 552]]<|/det|>
In today's world, clients need to be able to benefit from several services in one place, in as little time as possible. The quality of the services needs to be excellent. We work relentlessly to create services that are relevant and try to anticipate our clients' needs so they keep coming back to us, knowing that we can resolve their problems. Through investments in logistics operations, Sber subscriptions, the SberSpasibo loyalty program, Sber financial services, voice assistants, seamless authentication using Sber ID, we are creating a unique experience where clients can use services from different companies in one ecosystem.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[288, 566, 915, 685]]<|/det|>
We strive to put Sber's digital competencies at the service of people and society through the implementation and adoption of high- tech health services. Let me start with SberHealth. The company is showing dynamic growth and has over 14 million clients. Approximately 1.5 million telehealth consultation and doctor's appointment services were provided, and clients made over 11 million promptly delivered orders for medication through the SBER EAPTEKA service in 2021. The top 3 AI- assisted clinical decision support system has helped doctors in Moscow clinics make over 2 million diagnoses. Overall, we have combined over 50 AI- powered medical models to help medical personnel make diagnoses and decisions on a single platform.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[288, 699, 912, 779]]<|/det|>
We have also seen great progress in food tech. In 2021, SberMarket took the lead in the food delivery market, overtaking X5 Retail Group and Vkusvili, with turnover amounting to RUB 14.5 bn, three times higher than in 2020. For the first time in December, Delivery Club carried out over 10 million transactions, including grocery delivery, pickup, and cashless tips left for wait staff. In a single month, users made 9.8 million orders from restaurants and stores, 60% more than the previous year.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[288, 793, 923, 834]]<|/det|>
I think that this data is evidence enough of the progressive development of our ecosystem services. Another indicator of service relevance is the fact that over 4.25 million clients have subscribed to SberPrime, which provides discounts on our products.  

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[288, 848, 925, 940]]<|/det|>
On top of that, we launched our own smart devices: SberBox Time, a 3- in- 1 smart media speaker that is one- of- a- kind in its category and features the Salute virtual assistant family. We presented Russia's all- new high- performance supercomputer Christofari Neo, which enables you to bring computing speeds to the next level, unlocking new opportunities for us to implement breakthrough services and products with cutting- edge technology. Sber also created ruDALL- E, the world's first neural network capable of creating images based on text descriptions in Russian, which can be used for interior