There must be infinitely many solutions, since any multiple \( cx \) will also satisfy \( A(cx) = 0 \). The nullspace contains the line through \( x \). And if there are additional free variables, the nullspace becomes more than just a line in \( n \)-dimensional space. *The nullspace has the same "dimension" as the number of free variables and special solutions*.

This central idea—the **dimension** of a subspace—is made precise in the next section. We count the free variables for the nullspace. We count the pivot variables for the column space!

**Solving \( Ax = b, Ux = c, \) and \( Rx = d \)**

The case \( b \neq 0 \) is quite different from \( b = 0 \). The row operations on \( A \) must act also on the right-hand side (on \( b \)). We begin with letters (\( b_1, b_2, b_3 \)) to find the solvability condition—for \( b \) to lie in the column space. Then we choose \( b = (1,5,5) \) and find all solutions \( x \).

For the original example \( Ax = b = (b_1, b_2, b_3) \), apply to both sides the operations that led from \( A \) to \( U \). The result is an upper triangular system \( Ux = c \):

\[
Ux = c \quad \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 3 & 3 & 2 \\ 0 & 0 & 3 & 3 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} u \\ v \\ w \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} b_1 \\ b_2 - 2b_1 \\ b_3 - 2b_2 + 5b_1 \end{bmatrix}.
\]

The vector \( c \) on the right-hand side, which appeared after the forward elimination steps, is just \( L^{-1}b \) as in the previous chapter. Start now with \( Ux = c \).

It is not clear that these equations have a solution. The third equation is very much in doubt, because its left-hand side is zero. *The equations are inconsistent unless* \( b_3 - 2b_2 + 5b_1 = 0 \). Even though there are more unknowns than equations, there may be no solution. We know another way of answering the same question: \( Ax = b \) can be solved if and only if \( b \) lies in the column space of \( A \). This subspace comes from the four columns of \( A \) (not of \( U \! \)):

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Columns of \( A \)</th>
    <th>\([1]\)</th>
    <th>\([3]\)</th>
    <th>\([3]\)</th>
    <th>\([2]\)</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>"span" the column space</th>
    <td>2</td>
    <td>6</td>
    <td>9</td>
    <td>7</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th></th>
    <td>-1</td>
    <td>-3</td>
    <td>3</td>
    <td>4</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Even though there are four vectors, their combinations only fill out a plane in three-dimensional space. Column 2 is three times column 1. The fourth column equals the third minus the first. *These dependent columns, the second and fourth, are exactly the ones without pivots*.

The column space \( C(A) \) can be described in two different ways. On the one hand, it is *the plane generated by columns 1 and 3*. The other columns lie in that plane, and contribute nothing new. Equivalently, it is the plane of all vectors \( b \) that satisfy \( b_3 - 2b_2 + 5b_1 = 0 \); this is the constraint if the system is to be solvable. *Every column*