APPENDIX A.

Local First
Is a non-profit organization that leads the development of an economy grounded in local ownership that meets the basic needs of people, builds local wealth and social capital, functions in harmony with our ecosystem, and encourages joyful community.

Local isn’t a place, it is people. It’s reintegrating our lives, connecting in practical ways with the people we live and work with. Local First is another way of saying “People first.”

When we say local, we mean:
✓ Locally Owned
✓ Headquartered in West Michigan
✓ Privately Held (not traded on the stock market)

By eating locally, you will:
✓ Support our farmers
✓ Strengthen our local economy
✓ Ensure that you receive high quality food
✓ Cultivate community
✓ Eat sustainably while increasing healthy options

Why Local First?
1. Local First Expands. It creates and deepens relationships within a community, which becomes more vibrant through collaboration and mutual investment.
2. Local First Humanizes. Physical and economic development occur on a scale that nurtures people and encourages beauty in natural and manmade environments.
3. Local First Preserves. When more citizens are genuine stakeholders, protecting local economic and environmental value is of mutual interest.
4. Local First Strengthens. When citizens and local businesses work together, it catalyzes positive developments that otherwise would have structural integrity to withstand economic downturns.
5. Local First Invents. Sustainable local economies and ecosystems grow into markets that are greater than the sum of their parts.
6. Local First Encourages. Intimate connections between customers and businesses facilitate innovation, interaction, and discovery, making for a more efficient and resilient local economy.
7. Local First Enriches. Reinvesting success in customers, employees, and the local environment makes the entire community sustainable.

Contact Us
(616) 808-3788
info@localfirst.com
955 Wealthy St. S.E.
Grand Rapids, MI 49506
Localfirst.com/eat-local

Eat Locally
Eat Nutritiously

Featured Business
Discover and shop at locally-owned, entrepreneurial businesses that invest in their community through the Triple Bottom Line of people, planet, and profit.

HARMONY BREWING COMPANY
Harmony Brewing Company, located in Grand Rapids at 1551 Lake Dr. S.E., offers rustic wood fired pizzas, with hand prepared dough and a unique twist. Goat cheese is used instead of cheese from cow’s milk, providing more flavor with less fat and fewer calories. A great way to enjoy a pizza while still staying within a healthy diet!

Contact: (616) 233-0063

A Moveable Feast is a Grand Rapids based food truck serving delicious food made using only the highest quality ingredients, with an emphasis on local producers and responsible production methods.

Contact: (616) 401-8574