The most prominent Lava Jato judge, Sergio Moro, publicised a plea bargain which implicated Lula one week before the 2018 election. Lula’s favoured candidate lost to Jair Bolsonaro, a hard-right populist whose campaign had been boosted by anti-establishment sentiment generated by Lava Jato. Mr Moro then left the judiciary to become Mr Bolsonaro’s justice minister. The lead prosecutor, Deltan Dallagnol, became a congressman for a right-wing party. In 2019 leaked text messages published by The Intercept, an investigative site, suggested that Mr Moro had been colluding on cases with Mr Dallagnol. Both men told The Economist there was no collusion, and pointed out that the majority of judicial decisions on Lava Jato were initially upheld on appeal. Mr Dallagnol said the task force did not recognise the authenticity of the leaked messages, Mr Moro that they had “never been examined in open court”.

Critics also accused the Lava Jato taskforce of using aggressive tactics to court media attention. Lula was arrested in 2016 using a bench warrant, usually used when a subpoenaed person refuses to attend a hearing, something he had not done. In Peru and Brazil, prosecutors were criticised for the extensive use of pre-trial detention. One Brazilian investigator forbade the rector of a university from entering his campus, and briefly imprisoned him on suspicion of corruption. The rector committed suicide soon after. He was innocent.

Politicians pounced on these cracks. “Lava Jato was like the Jacobin moment of the French Revolution,” says Marco Bastos of Southern Pulse, a consultancy. Brazilians gawked at their televisions as a parade of politicians were figuratively guillotined. Then the old guard struck back.

Dying light
Legislators may have ousted Ms Rousseff because they felt she was doing too little to protect them. Romero Jucá, a senator, was caught on a wiretap before her impeachment, telling a political ally: “This shit has to be fixed...the government needs to be changed to stanch the bleeding.” He said his words had been taken out of context.

In 2017 Ms Rousseff’s successor, Michel Temer, who was imprisoned for graft himself and repeatedly dismissed the accusations as lies, pardoned non-violent offenders jailed for corruption who had served one-fifth of their sentence. His decree claimed that this could curb the “exponential growth of the prison population”. In 2019 the Supreme Court reversed an earlier decision and ruled that defendants be allowed to exhaust all avenues for appeal before being jailed. That freed Lula and protected many politicians from prison. Congress passed a law criminalising “abuses” by prosecutors and judges in the same year, with a broad definition of abuse.

Mr Temer’s successor, Mr Bolsonaro, had his own reasons to break with Lava Jato, despite having ridden the wave of sentiment it created to power. He appointed an attorney general who threw out over 100 requests to investigate Mr Bolsonaro. In 2020, when Lava Jato began scrutinising one of his sons, who is also a politician, Mr Bolsonaro was swift to declare that “there is no more corruption in government.” (His son denies wrongdoing, and calls the investigations “political persecution”. He disbanded the Lava Jato task force in 2021. Central America’s anti-corruption crusaders met a similar fate. Internationally backed courts in Honduras and Guatemala were both closed by politicians.

Mr Toffoli’s recent decisions show that the backlash against anti-corruption efforts continues. The judge himself has been linked to Lava Jato. In 2019 Crusoé, a Brazilian investigative outlet, published an article about emails sent by Odebrecht’s boss in 2007 which referred to Mr Toffoli, then the attorney general, as “the friend of my father’s friend”. The article alleged that “my father’s friend” was a reference to Lula, who was president at the time. He appointed Mr Toffoli to the Supreme Court in 2009. After the story was published, the Supreme Court deemed the article “fake news” and ordered it be scrubbed from the internet. Only public outcry forced the decision to be reversed. Along with suspending fines to be paid by Odebrecht and J&F, Mr Toffoli has also annulled all evidence gathered in Odebrecht’s leniency agreement. He declined to comment.

Few people in Brazil want to talk about corruption anymore, except to express disdain for Lava Jato. Gilmar Mendes, a Supreme Court judge, dismisses it as the product of foreign interference, “propaganda” by the media, and “anti-corruption fighters [who] like money a lot”.

Across the aisle
The blowback on Lava Jato is bipartisan. Mr Moro, now a senator, faces two trials which could bar him from office. One, concerning alleged campaign-finance abuses, was filed by Mr Bolsonaro’s party. The other, which alleges that Mr Moro committed fraud as part of an old plea deal, was launched by Mr Toffoli. Mr Dallagnol lost his seat in Congress after a decision by an electoral court on a technicality. He notes that the deciding judge was himself investigated by Lava Jato, and that lower courts had ruled in his favour. Mr Moro says both accusations against him are baseless.

On February 26th a different judge on Brazil’s Supreme Court authorised companies that had signed leniency agreements during Lava Jato to renegotiate the terms. They were given 60 days to do so, during which time all fines related to the case have been suspended. The companies claimed they felt coerced into signing the agreements, which “jeopardise their existence”.

The undoing of Lava Jato has resonated across Latin America. In Peru, former officials are pointing to the annulment of the Odebrecht evidence as part of their efforts to have their cases thrown out.

The ancien régime has been fighting back, and it has been winning. But it should be careful. In a national poll released on March 3rd a plurality of Brazilians said Lava Jato was shut down due to political interests. Fully 74% of those polled believe that the Supreme Court’s recent decisions “encourage corruption”.