India’s north-east
New bridges and old fissures

IMPHAL, MANIPUR AND KULAJAN, ASSAM
Violence in Manipur threatens Narendra Modi’s state-building effort

SUMIT DAS, a 32-year-old shopkeeper in Kulajan, a town in Assam in India’s north-east, divides his life into two parts: before the bridge and after. Until 2018 Kulajan, on the north bank of the Brahmaputra river, was poor and isolated. Crossing the river to reach the nearby commercial hub of Dibrugarh could take a day. Then Narendra Modi, India’s prime minister, inaugurated the Bogibeel bridge, the country’s longest rail-and-road crossing, cutting the journey time to less than an hour. Kulajan has been transformed. Mr Das used to be employed in a clothes shop and now runs his own. “I owe this to the bridge,” he says.

This is the sort of story Mr Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) likes to tell about north-east India. Long an embarrassment to the government in Delhi, the region’s eight states are poor, insurgency-racked and mostly tucked away beyond neighbouring Bangladesh. No part of India—not even restive Kashmir in the far north—has been so little touched by its 76-year-long state-building effort. The Modi government has tried to change that.

It has accelerated infrastructure projects in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura (see map on next page). It has improved relations with Bangladesh and tried to limit the ability of China—which claims Arunachal—to cause trouble. These efforts appeared to be succeeding—until the eruption in May of ethnic conflict in Manipur. This has left more than 200 dead, 70,000 displaced and the state divided between two ethnic groups. Where, in light of that crisis, does Mr Modi’s north-eastern approach stand?

Understand, first, how daunting it is. The region’s 50m people belong to dozens of ethnic groups, speak more than 200 languages and follow several religions. Many, including scores of militant bands, do not get along. The scar tissue of earlier interventions, British colonial and Indian, underlies their conflict. State borders imposed by the British jumbled tribal areas. The privileges some communities wrested from the central government—a jobs quota here, a land settlement there—enraged their neighbours. The conflict in Manipur was stirred by one such rivalry. The government in Delhi has sometimes intervened brutally. In 1966 India’s then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, ordered air strikes on the city of Aizawl, in what is now Mizoram, to quell a secessionist uprising. Perhaps unsurprisingly, many north-easterners feel little allegiance to India; other Indians tend to look on them suspiciously.

Recent governments have tried to woo the region with peacemaking and development. Yet as India’s growth rate has picked up, the disparity between the north-east and elsewhere has increased. The region’s share of GDP fell from 3.1% in 1991 to 2.6% in 2011. Mr Modi, in power since 2014, has sought to tackle this. His government speeded up infrastructure projects, improved relations with some ethnic groups and ordered administrators to make the north-east more “Indian”. The pace of road construction more than doubled during the first five years of his tenure; the total length of national highways in the region is approaching 16,000km, up from 8,500 in 2014. It has 17 civilian airports, compared with nine a decade ago. The current union budget includes $59bn rupees ($700m) for development in the north-east, twice the