Fig. 2—Microstructures of alloy B in (a) as-cast and (b) SHTed (8 h) conditions; and EBSD results of (c) \( \alpha \)-Fe in (b) and (d) STed \( \beta \)-Fe in (b).

<table>
  <tr>
    <th rowspan="2">Conditions</th>
    <th rowspan="2">Iron-Rich Intermetallics</th>
    <th colspan="5">Elements (Wt Pct)</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Al</th>
    <th>Si</th>
    <th>Mn</th>
    <th>Fe</th>
    <th>Cu</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">As-cast</td>
    <td>\( \alpha \)-Fe</td>
    <td>70.92 ± 0.76</td>
    <td>7.8 ± 0.35</td>
    <td>3.15 ± 0.25</td>
    <td>13.21 ± 0.42</td>
    <td>4.91 ± 0.24</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>\( \beta \)-Fe</td>
    <td>70.28 ± 0.67</td>
    <td>0</td>
    <td>1.57 ± 0.21</td>
    <td>7.51 ± 0.31</td>
    <td>20.64 ± 0.58</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">SHTed (8 h)</td>
    <td>\( \alpha \)-Fe</td>
    <td>74.43 ± 0.82</td>
    <td>6.68 ± 0.46</td>
    <td>3.54 ± 0.31</td>
    <td>9.92 ± 0.23</td>
    <td>5.43 ± 0.31</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>STed \( \beta \)-Fe</td>
    <td>75.10 ± 0.85</td>
    <td>0</td>
    <td>1.42 ± 0.12</td>
    <td>7.27 ± 0.25</td>
    <td>16.21 ± 0.56</td>
  </tr>
</table>

contents of Mn and Si, which is consistent with the literature.[16,30] After being SHTed for 8 hours, almost the entire amount of Al\(_2\)Cu is dissolved into the Al matrix as shown in Figure 2(b). It is also interesting to note that the Chinese script \( \alpha \)-Fe phase becomes unstable and is transformed into a small amount of short intermetallic platelets, leading to the fragmentation of the \( \alpha \)-Fe.

The chemical compositions of the iron-rich intermetallics in Alloy B in the as-cast and SHTed (for 8 hours) conditions measured by SEM–EDS are shown in Table II. It can be found that higher Al contents are detected in the \( \alpha \)-Fe and STed \( \beta \)-Fe after SHT than the corresponding iron-rich phases solidified directly from the liquid. This can be attributed to the partial contribution of the surrounding Al matrix due to the small sizes of the fragmented \( \alpha \)-Fe and STed \( \beta \)-Fe particles after SHT. Compared with the as-cast condition, it can be found that the iron content in \( \alpha \)-Fe is reduced after SHT for 8 hours. As shown in Figure 2(c), however, the EBSD results with a mean angular deviation (MAD) of 0.452, lower than 0.7 which is considered to be critical for an accurate solution,[31] indicate that this phase is still the \( \alpha \)-Fe (body-centered cubic with \( a, b, \) and \( c \) as 1.265 nm[11]). Moreover, the platelet-like intermetallic phase formed during the SHT has a similar chemical composition to the \( \beta \)-Fe obtained in the as-cast condition (Table II) and thus is termed as solid-state-transformed \( \beta \)-Fe (STed \( \beta \)-Fe) to distinguish it from the \( \beta \)-Fe directly precipitated from liquid metal during solidification. The formation of the STed \( \beta \)-Fe is further confirmed a low MAD value of 0.258 as measured by EBSD (Figure 2(d)). The STed \( \beta \)-Fe is most likely to have the same crystal structure as the solidified \( \beta \)-Fe (tetragonal with \( a \) and \( b \) of 0.634 nm and \( c \) of 1.488 nm[11]) due to their similar diffraction patterns. However, the STed \( \beta \)-Fe has lower Cu content than the \( \beta \)-Fe (Table II), and the replacement of the Cu by Al